
<h1 class="sectionedit1 heading-combo" id="tina4_testing">Tina4 Testing</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Tina4 has a built in testing system, to assist with test driven development. It utilizes both composer scripts and phpDoc Comments as part of the testing system.
</p>

</div>

<h4 class="heading-combo" id="declaring_a_test">Declaring a test</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Test declarations are included in the phpDoc Comments, and can be included above a function, class or class method. It includes two parts, the test declaration and then a list of tests. A test has two parts, the condition and then the message displayed, should there be a failure.
</p>
<pre class="preformatted-container-combo" data-download-link="true" data-src="file.txt">
<code class="language-txt preformatted-combo">
/**
* @tests
* assert 1 === 1, This will always be true
* assert 2 === 2, This will also, always be true
*/</code>
</pre>

</div>

<h5 class="heading-combo" id="synopsis_of_a_test">Synopsis of a test</h5>
<div class="level5">
<pre class="preformatted-container-combo" data-download-link="true" data-src="file.txt">
<code class="language-txt preformatted-combo">
 /**
 *
 * @tests
 * Test declaration  brackets infer calling numberAdd      $a       $b           eval    , Message to show when broken
 * assert            (                                     5,       5          )  ===  10, 5 + 5 should be 10 
 **/
 function numberAdd($a, $b) {
 
   return $a + $b;
 } </code>
</pre>

</div>

<h4 class="heading-combo" id="running_the_tests">Running the tests</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Tests can be run from the terminal in your IDE, either using composer scripts, or a php command. The required composer scripts are built into your composer.json file when you ran the tina4 initialize. The two lines in  your composer.json file of importance are
</p>
<pre class="preformatted-container-combo" data-download-link="true" data-src="file.txt">
<code class="language-txt preformatted-combo">
..
&quot;test&quot;: &quot;@tina4 tests:run&quot;,
&quot;test:verbose&quot;: &quot;@tina4 tests:verbose&quot;,
..</code>
</pre>

<p>
The tests can be called using either of these calls, with verbose giving a result for each test, as opposed to just a result for the set of tests under a @tests.
</p>
<pre class="preformatted-container-combo" data-download-link="true" data-src="file.txt">
<code class="language-txt preformatted-combo">
composer test
composer test:verbose</code>
</pre>

</div>

<h4 class="heading-combo" id="grouping_tests">Grouping tests</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Tests can be grouped to help simplify test results, especially when focussing in on an area of code under development. Test groups are declared by a comma delimited list
</p>
<pre class="preformatted-container-combo" data-download-link="true" data-src="file.txt">
<code class="language-txt preformatted-combo">
..
* @tests Test1, another test, &quot;Main group&quot;
..</code>
</pre>

<p>
and then called by appending one or more to the tests call
</p>
<pre class="preformatted-container-combo" data-download-link="true" data-src="file.txt">
<code class="language-txt preformatted-combo">
composer test another test, Test1</code>
</pre>

<p>
This will return all the tests declared with either another test or Test1. 
</p>

</div>

<h4 class="heading-combo" id="formulating_a_basic_test">Formulating a basic test</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
So the formulation of a basic test is made up of
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The assert, to determine this is the start of a test.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The (1,2) essentially is running the function with the variables given and then returning a value</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The returned value is then tested against the condition thus 3 === 3 so the test will pass.</div>
</li>
</ol>
<pre class="code-container-combo code-container-php-combo" data-download-link="true" data-src="file.php">
<code class="language-php code-combo code-php-combo">
  /**
   * Function to add two numbers together
   * @param $num1
   * @param $num2
   * @return mixed
   * @tests document
   *   assert (1, 2) === 3, The return can be tested with simple operators
   */
  function addNumbers($num1, $num2){
      return $num1 + $num2;
  }</code>
</pre>

<p>
So using verbose tests this will produce
</p>
<pre class="code-container-combo" data-download-link="true" data-src="file.txt">
<code class="language-txt code-combo">
composer test:verbose

BEGINNING OF TESTS
=====================================================
Testing Function addnumbers
# 1 addnumbers: Passed ((1, 2) == &quot;3&quot;) 100%
=====================================================
END OF TESTS</code>
</pre>

</div>

<h4 class="heading-combo" id="testing_operators">Testing operators</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
The following operators are available for use, and behave as expected in php
==, ===, !=, !==, ⇐, &gt;=, &lt;, &gt;
</p>

</div>
