
<h1 class="sectionedit1 heading-combo" id="welcome_to_your_new_dokuwiki">Welcome to your new DokuWiki</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Congratulations, your wiki is now up and running. Here are a few more tips to get you started.
</p>

<p>
Enjoy your work with DokuWiki,<br/>

– the developers
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Welcome to your new DokuWiki&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;welcome_to_your_new_dokuwiki&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-192&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2 heading-combo" id="create_your_first_pages">Create your first pages</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Your wiki needs to have a start page. As long as it doesn&#039;t exist, this link will be red: <a class="text-danger link-combo" data-wiki-id="start" href="/doku.php?id=start" rel="nofollow">start</a>.
</p>

<p>
Go on, follow that link and create the page. If you need help with using the syntax you can always refer to the <a class="link-internal link-combo" data-wiki-id="wiki:syntax" href="/doku.php?id=wiki:syntax" title="DokuWiki supports some simple markup language, which tries to make the datafiles to be as readable as possible. This page contains all possible syntax you may use when editing the pages. Simply have a look at the source of this page by pressing">syntax page</a>.
</p>

<p>
You might also want to use a sidebar. To create it, just edit the <a class="link-internal link-combo" data-wiki-id="sidebar" href="/doku.php?id=sidebar" title="&lt;https://tina4.com&gt;[ Tina4] Getting Started  first-steps - Installing  basic-routing - Routing  basic-website - Twig  basic-apiAPI - Open API  basic-debugging - Debugging  Beginner   down-the-rabbit-hole - Learning How do I   beginner  advanced Reference  directories  env  routing  database  migrations  orm  templates  Messenger  services  shapeHTML  swagger  generateCrud  modules  debug  auth  test">sidebar</a> page. Everything in that page will be shown in a margin column on the side. Read our <a class="interwiki iw_doku link-combo" href="https://www.dokuwiki.org/faq%3Asidebar"><abbr title="Frequently Asked Questions">FAQ</abbr> on sidebars</a> to learn more.
</p>

<p>
Please be aware that not all templates support sidebars.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Create your first pages&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;create_your_first_pages&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;193-749&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3 heading-combo" id="customize_your_wiki">Customize your Wiki</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Once you&#039;re comfortable with creating and editing pages you might want to have a look at the <a class="interwiki iw_this link-combo" href="http://localhost:8800/doku.php">configuration settings</a> (be sure to login as superuser first).
</p>

<p>
You may also want to see what <a class="interwiki iw_doku link-combo" href="https://www.dokuwiki.org/plugins">plugins</a> and <a class="interwiki iw_doku link-combo" href="https://www.dokuwiki.org/templates">templates</a> are available at DokuWiki.org to extend the functionality and looks of your DokuWiki installation.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Customize your Wiki&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;customize_your_wiki&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;750-1165&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4 heading-combo" id="join_the_community">Join the Community</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
DokuWiki is an Open Source project that thrives through user contributions. A good way to stay informed on what&#039;s going on and to get useful tips in using DokuWiki is subscribing to the <a class="interwiki iw_doku link-combo" href="https://www.dokuwiki.org/newsletter">newsletter</a>.
</p>

<p>
The <a class="link-external link-combo" href="https://forum.dokuwiki.org" rel="nofollow ugc">DokuWiki User Forum</a> is an excellent way to get in contact with other DokuWiki users and is just one of the many ways to get <a class="interwiki iw_doku link-combo" href="https://www.dokuwiki.org/faq%3Asupport">support</a>.
</p>

<p>
Of course we&#039;d be more than happy to have you <a class="interwiki iw_doku link-combo" href="https://www.dokuwiki.org/teams%3Agetting_involved">getting involved</a> with DokuWiki.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Join the Community&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;join_the_community&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1166-&quot;} -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/anchor-js@4.3.0/anchor.min.js" integrity="sha256-LGOWMG4g6/zc0chji4hZP1d8RxR2bPvXMzl/7oPZqjs=" crossorigin="anonymous" class="snippet-anchor-combo"></script>

<script class="snippet-popover-combo">window.addEventListener('load', function () {
    let namespace = "-bs"
    let version = 5;
    if (typeof jQuery != 'undefined' && typeof jQuery.fn.tooltip.constructor.VERSION !== 'undefined') {
        version = parseInt(jQuery.fn.tooltip.constructor.VERSION.substr(0, 1), 10);
        if (version < 5) {
            namespace = "";
        }
        jQuery(`[data${namespace}-toggle="popover"]`).popover();
    } else if (typeof bootstrap.Popover.VERSION !== 'undefined') {
        version = parseInt(bootstrap.Popover.VERSION.substr(0, 1), 10);
        if (version < 5) {
            namespace = "";
        }
        document.querySelectorAll(`[data${namespace}-toggle="popover"]`)
            .forEach(el => {
                new bootstrap.Popover(el);
                // to not navigate on a anchor
                el.onclick = (event => event.preventDefault());
            });
    }
});
</script>

<script class="snippet-anchor-combo">document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', (event) => {
    anchors.options = {
        placement: 'right',
        icon: '#',
        class: 'anchor-combo'
    };
    anchors.add("main > h2").add("main > h3").add("main > h4").add("main > h5").add("main > h6");
});
</script>

<style class="snippet-link-combo">
a.link-external:not(.btn) {
    background-image: url(data:image/png;base64,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);
    background-repeat: no-repeat;
    background-position: 0 center;
    padding: 0 0 0 18px;
}

a.link-mail:not(.btn) {
    background-image: url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABAAAAAQCAQAAAC1+jfqAAABOUlEQVR4AaXJMWoUUQDG8f/33ltldyZB3E2xaCAxIQREFKwD2lhb6QmsxMIL6BlU8AhCjmBADdqlWLyACKZKF7LZmUzmzXwiSMTKwl/7478Jng9OXa5fviRzwTS5/j40OcHo2fSofH10tUcXHVg9q54cj3kleOnRj/uHh3e+FVgCbK2drX/dn5xuogAD8uqnyfXZRi3J+tXN2uxj2WwkEgFw0vnW3srmwbU2K2uat2fvi/ObSbII0Kl3VL+9O975PPXEOwe7sb8dZXfqSGB6YWm89Wb+dF+jt+3K3ZoeYUDwwgOjK14wV7tHNXhYUvgEqzUhQeegZVcsSOYBRFeCIXN3ggBoiYYTJBOJIHmhhiWEEHzwl3ycIhjxm5y1nO8FYoJbj268A0D8ISAWj0HQyEOE+Zuwasy//ATU93+97E8p8AAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==);
    background-repeat: no-repeat;
    background-position: 0 center;
    padding: 0 0 0 18px;
}

</style>

<style class="snippet-historical-breadcrumb-combo">.historical-breadcrumb li {
    margin-bottom: 0.5rem;
}
.historical-breadcrumb a {
    text-decoration: none;
}
.historical-breadcrumb-home {
    max-width: fit-content;
    display: block;
    margin-right: auto;
    margin-left: auto;
    margin-bottom: 1rem;
    padding:0.5rem;
    text-align: center;
    border-radius: calc(.3rem - 1px);
    background-color: #f0f0f0;
}
.historical-breadcrumb-home::before {
    content:'Actual: '
}
</style>

<style class="snippet-message-combo">/*Message*/
.combo-message > .signature {
    font-size: 80%;
    font-style: italic;
    text-align: right;
}
</style>
